content/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Dann Berg: blog, newsletter, shop, and more"
date: 2020-05-01T08:03:56-04:00
description: "Hello, I'm Dann. I'm a Senior FinOps Leader (previously Datadog, FullStory) and a writer of blogs and plays. This is home to my thoughts on finops, technology, productivity, & more."
---

<!-- Text for the header is in the shortcode -->
{{< blog-header >}}

{{<figure src="/images/dannberg.png" width="250" height="250" class="pull-left" >}}

{{% class lead %}}
Hello, I'm Dann. I work at the intersection of engineering, finance, and cloud cost optimization. In simpler terms, I help make big, scary cloud bills not so big or scary.
{{% /class %}}

Want to do a deep dive? There's more on my **[About](/about)** page, or you can check me out on **[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dannberg/)**, **[Github](https://github.com/dannberg)**, **[AngelList](https://angel.co/u/dann-berg)** and **[Twitter](https://twitter.com/dannberg)**/**{{< mastodon >}}**. If you want something more personal, you can find me at the monthly **[NYC FinOps Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/New-York-City-Cloud-FinOps/)**, which I run. It's also pretty easy to find more about me with a quick **[Google search](https://www.google.com/search?q=dann+berg)**. Spelling Dann with two Ns is great for SEO.

In a past life (before the deep dive into FinOps), I was a tech journalist, and my writing has appeared on MSNBC, Fox News, The Verge, Mashable, Laptop Magazine, and Tom’s Guide. I also co-authored two full-length plays with my wife, including **["The Floorshow"](http://combustioncollective.org/the-floorshow/)**, which is about a group of tap-dancing showgirls in the 1950s.

I live in Brooklyn, New York with **[my wife](http://asuleen.com)** and our cat.

{{% class center %}}
### Selected Output
{{% /class %}}

<!-- The full text for the UL on the homepage is in the shortcode -->
{{< home-ul >}}

Commit message:

update about and index with new vantage job info

content/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Dann Berg: blog, newsletter, shop, and more"
date: 2020-05-01T08:03:56-04:00
description: "Hello, I'm Dann. I'm the Director of Community at Vantage (previously sr. FinOps @ Datadog, FullStory) and a writer of blogs and plays. This is home to my thoughts on finops, technology, productivity, & more."
---

<!-- Text for the header is in the shortcode -->
{{< blog-header >}}

{{<figure src="/images/dannberg.png" width="250" height="250" class="pull-left" >}}

{{% class lead %}}
Hello, I'm Dann. I work at the intersection of engineering, finance, and cloud cost optimization. In simpler terms, I help make big, scary cloud bills not so big or scary.
{{% /class %}}

Want to do a deep dive? There's more on my **[About](/about)** page, or you can check me out on **[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dannberg/)**, **[Github](https://github.com/dannberg)**, **[AngelList](https://angel.co/u/dann-berg)** and **[Twitter](https://twitter.com/dannberg)**/**{{< mastodon >}}**. If you want something more personal, you can find me at the monthly **[NYC FinOps Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/New-York-City-Cloud-FinOps/)**, which I run. It's also pretty easy to find more about me with a quick **[Google search](https://www.google.com/search?q=dann+berg)**. Spelling Dann with two Ns is great for SEO.

In a past life (before the deep dive into FinOps), I was a tech journalist, and my writing has appeared on MSNBC, Fox News, The Verge, Mashable, Laptop Magazine, and Tom’s Guide. I also co-authored two full-length plays with my wife, including **["The Floorshow"](http://combustioncollective.org/the-floorshow/)**, which is about a group of tap-dancing showgirls in the 1950s.

I live in Brooklyn, New York with **[my wife](http://asuleen.com)** and our cat.

{{% class center %}}
### Selected Output
{{% /class %}}

<!-- The full text for the UL on the homepage is in the shortcode -->
{{< home-ul >}}
