content/start-here.md, before:

---
title: "Start Here"
date: 2024-02-22T09:39:35-05:00
description: "New here? Start your journey into Dann Berg’s key content, productivity tips, FinOps expertise, and annual insights."
---
![A blue geolocation pin, casting a small shadow](/images/blog/2024/02/geolocation-pin.png)

As I create more content, I feel like it's easier for certain things to get buried or forgotten. Likewise, I share content across this website, an email newsletter, and YouTube, so it can be hard to get a full picture of all the things I'm putting out into the world.

My solution? A "Start here" page for this website. This will be updated as necessary to keep it relevant, and will contain links to places of interest for anyone new here.

### Places I publish
- [Articles](https://dannb.org/blog) ([RSS](https://dannb.org/index.xml))
- [Newsletter](https://dannberg.substack.com)
- [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@DannBerg)

### How I work
Every time I set up a new MacOS laptop (not *often*, but enough) I always tend to do the same tasks to customize my digital life. Here's **[what they are](https://dannb.org/blog/2023/how-dann-sets-up-new-computer/)**.

Every year since 2012 (with a few exceptions), I've done a _Year in Review_ post. You can find them here: [2023](https://dannb.org/blog/2023/best-of-2023/), [2022](https://dannb.org/blog/2022/best-of-2022/), [2021](https://dannb.org/blog/2021/best-of-2021/), [2020](https://dannb.org/blog/2020/best-of-2020/), [2018](https://novicenolonger.com/exhaustive-list-favorite-things-2018/), [2016](https://novicenolonger.com/best-of-2016/), [2015](http://novicenolonger.com/my-best-of-2015-a-year-in-review/), [2013](http://novicenolonger.com/my-best-of-2013/), [2012](http://novicenolonger.com/my-best-of-2012/).

#### My Productivity
Daily todos and tasks are managed in a physical notebook, in a system I've dubbed the **[Daily Driver Task Management System](https://dannb.org/blog/2020/daily-driver-task-management-system/)**.

I use **[Obsidian](https://obsidian.md)** as a second brain, and I've written about various systems to manage different workflows:

- [My Obsidian Daily Note Template](https://dannb.org/blog/2022/obsidian-daily-note-template/)
- [My Obsidian People Note Template](https://dannb.org/blog/2022/obsidian-people-note-template/)
- [My Obsidian Meeting Note Template](https://dannb.org/blog/2023/obsidian-meeting-note-template/)
- [My Obsidian Physical Object Note Template](https://dannb.org/blog/2024/obsidian-physical-object-template/)

### FinOps
FinOps is a relatively new engineering discipline that serves as a bridge between engineering and finance. Professionally, I've worked as a FinOps Practitioner at several companies and have been active in the FinOps community for many years.

I've also published FinOps content sharing what I've learned. Here are my favorites:

- [Creating a FinOps practice as the first practitioner](https://dannb.org/blog/2022/how-to-be-first-finops-practitioner/)
- [Convincing Your Company Adopt Finops](https://dannb.org/blog/2023/convincing-your-company-adopt-finops/)
- [Avoiding Lone FinOps Purgatory: When and how to grow your FinOps team](https://dannb.org/blog/2023/grow-your-finops-team/)

Commit message:

add links to start here page

content/start-here.md, after:

---
title: "Start Here"
date: 2024-02-22T09:39:35-05:00
description: "New here? Start your journey into Dann Berg’s key content, productivity tips, FinOps expertise, and annual insights."
---
![A blue geolocation pin, casting a small shadow](/images/blog/2024/02/geolocation-pin.png)

As I create more content, I feel like it's easier for certain things to get buried or forgotten. Likewise, I share content across this website, an email newsletter, and YouTube, so it can be hard to get a full picture of all the things I'm putting out into the world.

My solution? A "Start here" page for this website. This will be updated as necessary to keep it relevant, and will contain links to places of interest for anyone new here.

### Places I publish
- [Articles](https://dannb.org/blog) ([RSS](https://dannb.org/index.xml))
- [Newsletter](https://dannberg.substack.com)
- [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@DannBerg)

### How I work
Every time I set up a new MacOS laptop (not *often*, but enough) I always tend to do the same tasks to customize my digital life. Here's **[what they are](https://dannb.org/blog/2023/how-dann-sets-up-new-computer/)**.

Every year since 2012 (with a few exceptions), I've done a _Year in Review_ post. You can find them here: [2023](https://dannb.org/blog/2023/best-of-2023/), [2022](https://dannb.org/blog/2022/best-of-2022/), [2021](https://dannb.org/blog/2021/best-of-2021/), [2020](https://dannb.org/blog/2020/best-of-2020/), [2018](https://novicenolonger.com/exhaustive-list-favorite-things-2018/), [2016](https://novicenolonger.com/best-of-2016/), [2015](http://novicenolonger.com/my-best-of-2015-a-year-in-review/), [2013](http://novicenolonger.com/my-best-of-2013/), [2012](http://novicenolonger.com/my-best-of-2012/).

#### My Productivity
Daily todos and tasks are managed in a physical notebook, in a system I've dubbed the **[Daily Driver Task Management System](https://dannb.org/blog/2020/daily-driver-task-management-system/)**.

I use **[Obsidian](https://obsidian.md)** as a second brain, syncing across all my devices with **[Obsidian Sync](https://obsidian.md/sync)** ($8/mo) and **[backing everything up to Github](https://dannb.org/blog/2024/obsidian-backup-github/)** for free.

There's a **[tour of my personal Obsidian vault](https://youtu.be/VdJoWe0Wwkg)** on YouTube, and I've shared various systems both on my YouTube channel and here:

- [My Obsidian Daily Note Template](https://dannb.org/blog/2022/obsidian-daily-note-template/)
- [My Obsidian People Note Template](https://dannb.org/blog/2022/obsidian-people-note-template/)
- [My Obsidian Meeting Note Template](https://dannb.org/blog/2023/obsidian-meeting-note-template/)
- [My Obsidian Physical Object Note Template](https://dannb.org/blog/2024/obsidian-physical-object-template/)

### FinOps
FinOps is a relatively new engineering discipline that serves as a bridge between engineering and finance. Professionally, I've worked as a FinOps Practitioner at several companies and have been active in the FinOps community for many years.

I've also published FinOps content sharing what I've learned. Here are my favorites:

- [Creating a FinOps practice as the first practitioner](https://dannb.org/blog/2022/how-to-be-first-finops-practitioner/)
- [Convincing Your Company Adopt Finops](https://dannb.org/blog/2023/convincing-your-company-adopt-finops/)
- [Avoiding Lone FinOps Purgatory: When and how to grow your FinOps team](https://dannb.org/blog/2023/grow-your-finops-team/)

I'm in the process of writing a book called _FinOps for Startups_ and I'm **[documenting the entire book research process](https://finopsforstartups.com)** in an effort to _Learn in Public_. You can **[subscribe](https://subscribe.finopsforstartups.com/)** to follow along.
